Autotldr is a bot that uses SMMRY to create a TL;DR/summary. I will put forth points that address the effects this bot has on the reddit community.
It doesn't create laziness, it only responds to it
For the users who click the article link first and then return back to the comments, they will have already given their best attempt of fully reading the article. If they read it fully, the tl;dr is unneeded and ignored. If they skimmed or skipped it, the bot will be useful to at least provide more context to the discussion, like an extension of the title. A large portion of users, especially in the defaulted mainstream subreddits like /r/politics, don't even go to the article and go straight to the comments section. Most of the time, if I skip to the comments, I'm able to illicit some sort of understanding of what the article was about from the title and discussion. However this bot is able to further improve my conjectured understanding. It did not make me skip it, it only helped me when I already decided to skip it. The scenario in which this bot would create a significantly lazy atmosphere is if the tl;dr were to be presented parallel to the main submission, in the same way the OP's tl;dr is presented right next to the long body of self post. Also, the tl;dr becomes more prevalent/hidden as it will get upvoted/downvoted depending on how much of a demand there was for a tl;dr in the first place. If it becomes the top voted comment than it has become more of a competitor to the original text for those who go to the comments first, but by then the thread has decided that a tl;dr was useful and the bot delivered.
It can make sophisticated topics more relevant to mainstream Reddit
Sophisticated and important topics are usually accompanied or presented by long detailed articles. By making these articles and topics relevant to a larger portion of the Reddit userbase (those who weren't willing to read the full article), it popularizes the topic and increases user participation. These posts will get more attention in the form of upvotes/downvotes, comments, and reposts. This will increase the prevalence of sophisticated topics in the mainstream subreddits and compete against cliched memes. This has the potential of re-sophisticating the topic discussion in the mainstream subreddits, as more hardcore redditors don't have to retreat to a safe haven like /r/TrueReddit. This is a loose approximation and the magnitude of this effect is questionable, but I'm not surprised if the general direction of the theory is correct. I'm not claiming this would improve reddit overnight, but instead very very gradually.
It decreases Reddit's dependency on external sites
The bot doubles as a context provider for when a submission link goes down, is removed, or inaccessible at work/school. The next time the article you clicked gives you a 404 error, you won't have to depend on the users to provide context as the bot will have been able to provide that service at a much faster and consistent rate than a person. Additionally, an extended summary is posted in /r/autotldr, which acts as a perpetual archive and decreases how much reddit gets broken by external sites.
Only useful tl;dr's are posted
There are several criteria for a bot to post a tl;dr. It posts the three most important sentences as decided by the core algorithm, and they must be within 450-700 characters total. The final tl;dr must also be 70% smaller than the original, that way there is a big gap between the original and the tl;dr, hence only very long articles get posted on. This way the likelihood of someone nonchalantly declaring "TL;DR" in a thread and the bot posting in the same one is high. Also my strategy is to tell the bot to post in default, mainstream subreddits were the demand for a TL;DR is much higher than /r/TrueReddit and /r/worldevents.
Feel free to respond to these concepts and to raise your own. Be polite, respectful, and clarify what you say. Any offending posts to this rule will be removed.
